W-16176067 apid resources best practices duke (#333)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/acb-api-design.adoc

// tag::note-asyncapi[]
If your AsyncAPI specification is not published to Exchange, see xref:design-center::design-publish.adoc[]. To create an AsyncAPI specification before publishing to Exchange, see xref:design-center::design-async-api.adoc[] in the Design Center documentation. 
// end::note-asyncapi[]
//

//
// tag::apid-best-practices[]

* Divide your fragments into short, reusable dependencies when possible.

* Keep only one version of the same dependency.

> * Keep only one browser tab open at a time.

Reviewer: Only valid when using ACB Cloud IDE

Author: That is added outside of this include so that Nanda can use this include for Design Center if she likes. (The include itself doesn't mention ACB or DC so that we can share it.)

// end::apid-best-practices[]
// 
//
//
// tag::apid-resource-reqs[]

* 8 GB RAM
* Ryzen series 5 / Intel i5 CPU or higher

> Due to parser limitations, try to keep the total project size for all files in your design project below 500 KB. 

Author: ```suggestion
To achieve optimal parser performance, keep the total project size for all files in your design project below 500 KB. 
```

> Due to parser limitations, a total project size (all files in your design project) of less than 500 KB is recommended.

Author: ```suggestion
Due to parser limitations, try to keep the total project size for all files in your design project below 500 KB. 
```

> Due to parser limitations, the recommendation for the total project size (all files in your design project) is less than 500 KB.

Author: Reworded from Nanda's a bit to avoid use of "should be" (per doc guidelines), although I personally liked her way better.

> Due to parser limitations, the recommendation for the total project size (all files in your design project) is less than 500 KB.

Author: ```suggestion
Due to parser limitations, a total project size (all files in your design project) of less than 500 KB is recommended.
```

> If the project size exceeds 1.5 MB, validation takes longer.

Author: ```suggestion
A project size that exceeds 1.5 MB severely affects validation time.
```

> If the project size exceeds 1.5 MB, validation takes longer.

Author: It's strange to me that the recommendation is "below 500 KB", but we say that validation takes longer if the project "exceeds 1.5 MB". I don't understand the 1M gap here. Are the validation and parser issues different things or are they related? @lbauret

Reviewer: There are two "thresholds" in our limits:
- To have optimal performance, your design project size must be below 500 KB.
- In case the project size exceeds 1.5 MB, then the validation times will be so high that the experience will make it unusable.
So our recommendation is to keep project size below 500 KB, but our hard limit is 1.5 MB

// end::apid-resource-reqs[]
//
//
//
// tag:apid-best-practices-oas[]

> * Use the `$ref` property to define reusable components. To improve parsing efficiency, reference components across the API specification, for example:

Author: ```suggestion
* Use the `$ref` property to define reusable components. To improve parsing efficiency, reference each component from the API specification instead of duplicating component definitions, for example:
```

> * Use the `$ref` property to define reusable components. To improve parsing efficiency, reference components across the API specification, for example:

Author: What do we mean by "across the API specification"? Are we just telling people to reference components instead of duplicating the same content in the spec? @lbauret

Reviewer: Exactly

+
----
components:
  schemas:
    User:
      type: object
      properties:
        id:
          type: integer

paths:
  /users:
    get:
      responses:
        '200':
          description: Successful response
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                $ref: '#/components/schemas/User'

----

* Use simpler types to represent your data if possible. Avoid unnecessary nesting and complicated types, for example:

+
----
properties:
  age:
    type: integer  # Prefer simple types over complex types like objects

----

> * Use the `enum` property for fields with fixed set of values to improve parsing efficiency: 

Author: ```suggestion
* Use the `enum` property for fields with a fixed set of values to improve parsing efficiency: 
```

+
----
properties:
  status:
    type: string
    enum: [active, inactive]

----

* Use simple nesting for objects to simplify the structure and improve readability and parsing efficiency: 

+
----
# Good
properties:
  name:
    type: string
  address:
    type: string

# Avoid
properties:
  user:
    type: object
    properties:
      profile:
        type: object
        properties:
          name:
            type: string

----

* Use `response` headers instead of the response body to provide additional information, for example:
+
----
responses:
  '200':
    description: Successful response
    headers:
      X-Rate-Limit-Limit:
        description: The number of requests allowed in the current period
        schema:
          type: integer

----

> * Include concise and short examples: 

Author: ```suggestion
* Provide concise and short examples: 
```

+
----
Book:
  type: string
  example: "Explain the string with as few words as possible."
----

* When using union-type properties, use `oneOf` to represent union-type object fields, `allOf` to represent an intersection type and composite objects and fields, and `anyOf` when defining a property with multiple possible data structures. 

// end::apid-best-practices-oas[]
//
//
//
// tag::apid-best-practices-raml[]

> * When extracting RAML fragments, import the fragments as local declaration first.

Author: ```suggestion
* When extracting RAML fragments, import the fragments as a local declaration first.
```

> * When extracting RAML fragments, import the fragments as a local declaration first.

Author: @lbauret Tweaked but not sure if correct. 

The original sentence was "When extracting RAML Fragments, import them as local declaration first."

Two questions about the original sentence:

* just to clarify that "them" refers to fragments? What does "extracting fragments" mean here?
* "import them as local declaration": not sure if that should be "... as a local declaration" or "... as local declarations" 

can you help, @lbauret ?

Reviewer: We are suggesting users to generate fragments from existing code, in order to avoid duplication and encourage reuse. In order to extract a piece of code to a fragment, those extracted fragments should be imported as local declaration first. This means that you should create a fragment file, and before publishing to Exchange, you should import that local fragment file to validate that the fragment is working as expected. Then, continue to publish it to Exchange and use them as reusable pieces.

> * When extracting RAML fragments, import the fragments as a local declaration first.

Author: ```suggestion
* When extracting RAML fragments, import each fragment as a local declaration first: 
+
Create a fragment file, and before publishing the fragment to Anypoint Exchange, import the local fragment file to validate that the fragment works as expected. If the fragment works, publish the fragment to Exchange so you can reuse the fragment in your API specifications instead of duplicating it.
```

* Reuse data types as declarations.

> * Use inheritances only when needed:

Author: ```suggestion
* Use inheritance only when needed:
```

@lbauret  should this be "inheritances" (plural) or "inheritance" (singular)?

Reviewer: I think it should be in singular right? Because inheritance can be used multiple times, but the concept is called inheritance.

+
----
Car:
  description: This is a car
  properties:
    brand: string
    model: string
  example:
    brand: Toyota
    model: Corolla
Person:
  properties:
    owns: Car

----

* Use short unions:

+
----
Person:
  type: Employee | Customer
----

> * Use simple traits and try not to combine them with resource type properties:

Author: ```suggestion
* Use simple traits, and avoid combining traits with resource type properties:
```

@lbauret does "them" refer to traits?

// tag::note-asyncapi[]
If your AsyncAPI specification is not published to Exchange, see xref:design-center::design-publish.adoc[]. To create an AsyncAPI specification before publishing to Exchange, see xref:design-center::design-async-api.adoc[] in the Design Center documentation. 
// end::note-asyncapi[]
//

//
// tag::apid-best-practices[]

* Divide your fragments into short, reusable dependencies when possible.

* Keep only one version of the same dependency.

* Keep only one browser tab open at a time.
// end::apid-best-practices[]
// 
//
//
// tag::apid-resource-reqs[]

* 8 GB RAM
* Ryzen series 5 / Intel i5 CPU or higher

> To achieve optimal parser performance, keep the total project size for all files in your design project below 500 KB. 

Author: Please check if you are ok with this new wording, @lbauret.
```suggestion
To achieve optimal parser performance, keep the total project size for all files in your design project below 500 KB. 
```

Reviewer: Looks good to me

> A project size that exceeds 1.5 MB severely affects validation time.

Author: Please check if you are ok with this new wording, @lbauret.
```suggestion
A project size that exceeds 1.5 MB severely affects validation time.
```

Reviewer: Looks good to me

+
----
# Good
properties:
  name:
    type: string
  address:
    type: string

# Avoid
properties:
  user:
    type: object
    properties:
      profile:
        type: object
        properties:
          name:
            type: string

----

* Use `response` headers instead of the response body to provide additional information, for example:
+
----
responses:
  '200':
    description: Successful response
    headers:
      X-Rate-Limit-Limit:
        description: The number of requests allowed in the current period
        schema:
          type: integer

----

* Provide concise and short examples: 
+
----
Book:
  type: string
  example: "Explain the string with as few words as possible."
----

* When using union-type properties, use `oneOf` to represent union-type object fields, `allOf` to represent an intersection type and composite objects and fields, and `anyOf` when defining a property with multiple possible data structures. 

// end::apid-best-practices-oas[]
//
//
//
// tag::apid-best-practices-raml[]

* When extracting RAML fragments, import each fragment as a local declaration first: 
+

> Create a fragment file, and before publishing the fragment to Anypoint Exchange, import the local fragment file to validate that the fragment works as expected. If the fragment works, publish the fragment to Exchange so you can reuse the fragment in your API specifications instead of duplicating it.

Author: Please check if you are ok with this new wording, @lbauret.
```suggestion
Create a fragment file, and before publishing the fragment to Anypoint Exchange, import the local fragment file to validate that the fragment works as expected. If the fragment works, publish the fragment to Exchange so you can reuse the fragment in your API specifications instead of duplicating it.
```

Reviewer: Looks good to me

* Reuse data types as declarations.

> * Use inheritance only when needed:

Author: The original DC doc said "inheritances" (plural); changed to "inheritance" (singular) here.
```suggestion
* Use inheritance only when needed:
```

Reviewer: Looks good to me
